Team LBAC: docs (#77924)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/administration/data-source-management/team_lbac.md

  - ../datasources/datasource_permissions/teamlbac
  - ../enterprise/datasource_permissions/team_lbac
  - ../enterprise/datasource_permissions/teamlbac
  - ../permissions/datasource_permissions/team_lbac
  - ../permissions/datasource_permissions/teamlbac
description: Data source permissions for Teams for Grafana administrators
labels:
  products:
    - enterprise
    - cloud
title: Data source permissions for Team LBAC
weight: 100
---

# Team LBAC

Grafana's new Team LBAC (Label-Based Access Control) feature for Loki is a significant enhancement that simplifies and streamlines data source access management based on team memberships. Users wanting fine grained access to data sources such as Loki with `X` amount of teams with different levels of access can make use of Team LBAC.

This feature addresses a common challenge faced by Grafana users: managing Loki data source access for different teams. Previously, this led to the creation of numerous connections and duplicate dashboards, hampering scalability and user experience. With Team LBAC, users can now configure access to specific labels based solely on team memberships.

## Team LBAC rules

> Users who want teams with a specific set of label selectors can add rules for each team. Team LBAC rules have no upper limit as to how many you can configure per team.

Author: nah, that makes sense. I guess I wanted to say that you can configure the query with alot of rules. it's more like best practice to keep it a minimum. but that comes with everything

We have two teams, Team A and Team B. Loki access is setup with `Admin` roles to have `Query` permission.

- Team A has a rule `namespace="dev"`. A user that is part of Team A will have access to logs that match `namespace="dev"`.

- Team B has a rule `namespace="prod"`. A user that is part of Team B will have access to logs that match `namespace="prod"`.

**Scenario 2: One rule setup for a Team**

We have two teams, Team A and Team B. Loki access is setup with `Editor`, `Viewer` roles to have `Query` permission.

- Team A has a rule `namespace="dev"` configured. A user that is part of Team A will have access to logs that match `namespace="dev"`.

- Team B does not have a rule configured for it. A user that is part of Team B, that is `Editor` or `Viewer` will have access to all logs (due to the query permission for the user).

**Scenario 3: Multiple rules setup for one team**

We have two teams, Team A and Team B. Loki access is setup with `Admin` roles having `Admin` permission.

- Team A has rule `namespace="dev", namespace="prod"` configured. A user that is part of Team A will have access to logs that match `namespace="dev"` `AND` `namespace=prod`.

> - Team B has rule `namespace!="dev", namespace="prod"` configured. A user that is part of Team B will have access to logs that match `namespace!="bi"` `AND` `namespace=prod`.

Author: `namespace!="dev", namespace="prod"` it makes sense if you want to block and only view namespace="prod".

let's make up better examples or scenarios together.

> - Team B has rule `namespace!="dev", namespace="prod"` configured. A user that is part of Team B will have access to logs that match `namespace!="bi"` `AND` `namespace=prod`.

Reviewer: >it makes sense if you want to block and only view namespace="prod"

It does not work this way. `namespace="prod"` is exactly the same as `namespace!="dev", namespace="prod"`. It's like `A == B AND A != C` - always the same as `A == B`.

- A user that is part of Team A and Team B will have access to logs that match `(namespace="dev" AND namespace="prod") OR (namespace="dev" AND namespace!="bi")`.

**Scenario 4: Two or more rules configured for a team**

We have three teams, Team A, Team B and Team C. Team C is a new team and has no rules configured for it. Loki access is setup with `Editor` role having `Query` permission.

Team A has a rule `namespace="dev"` configured. A user with `Editor` role has access to all logs. A user that is part of Team A without `Editor` role will get all logs that match `namespace="dev"`.

Team B have two rules `namespace="dev"` and `namespace="prod"`. Team B, would be able to query all logs that match either `namespace="dev"` OR `namespace="prod"`.

> Team C have no rules. Team C has a user with an `Viewer`. Team C's `Editors`, will have access to query all logs.

Reviewer: >Team C has a user with an `Viewer`. Team C's `Editors`, will have access to query all logs.

I do not understand this

Author: removed this example

**Scenario 5: Rules that overlap**

We have two teams, Team A and Team B.

Team A has a rule `namespace="dev"`. A user in Team A will have access to logs that match `namespace="dev"`.

Team B has a rule `namespace!="dev"`. A user in Team b will have access to logs that match `namespace!="dev"`.

> > _NOTE:_ A user that is part of Team A and Team B will have access to logs that match `namespace="dev"` `OR` `namespace!="dev"`.

Reviewer: It might be good to say here that `namespace="dev"` `OR` `namespace!="dev"` are all the logs.

---
aliases:
  - ../datasources/datasource_permissions/team_lbac
  - ../datasources/datasource_permissions/teamlbac
  - ../enterprise/datasource_permissions/team_lbac
  - ../enterprise/datasource_permissions/teamlbac
  - ../permissions/datasource_permissions/team_lbac

>   - ../permissions/datasource_permissions/teamlbac

Reviewer 2: Since this is a new file, do we need all of these aliases?

Aliases are for redirecting old page locations to this current page. Since the page is new, I don't think we need any redirects.

Author: removing all of the aliases

Author: thought they would be used as a "aliases" as they can use these different ways to get search results

Reviewer 2: Ah yeah, that's a reasonable idea based upon the name of the front matter field, but it turns out to be only for redirects (https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/front-matter/#aliases).

> description: Data source permissions for Teams for Grafana administrators

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
description: Data source permissions for Grafana Teams
```

labels:
  products:

>     - enterprise

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Author: it's not part of enterprise?

    - cloud
title: Data source permissions for Team LBAC
weight: 100
---

# Team LBAC

> 

Reviewer 3: Suggest we add a public preview note like for here https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/connect-externally-hosted/multi-stack-data-sources/

> Grafana's new Team LBAC (Label-Based Access Control) feature for Loki is a significant enhancement that simplifies and streamlines data source access management based on team memberships. Users wanting fine grained access to data sources such as Loki with `X` amount of teams with different levels of access can make use of Team LBAC.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Grafana's new Team LBAC (Label-Based Access Control) feature for Grafana Cloud Logs is a significant enhancement that simplifies and streamlines data source access management based on team membership. Team LBAC lets multiple teams view the same Grafana Cloud Logs datasource filtered by their team’s label filters.```

In short LBAC stands for Label-Based Access Control. It is a way to control access to data based on labels. In the context of Loki, it is a way to control access to logs based on labels.

> This feature addresses a common challenge faced by Grafana users: managing Loki data source access for different teams. Previously, this led to the creation of numerous connections and duplicate dashboards, hampering scalability and user experience. With Team LBAC, users can now configure access to specific labels based solely on team memberships.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This feature addresses two common challenge faced by Grafana users: 

1. High volume of Grafana Cloud datasource. Team LBAC lets Grafana Admins reduce the total volume of data sources per instance from hundreds, to one.

2. Hard for teams to share dashboard. Team LBAC lets Grafana Teams share the same dashboard despite different access control rules.

```

**Note:** A user who is part of a team within Grafana without a rule will be able to query all logs if there are role based queriying setup.

#### Best practices

We recommend you only add team LBAC permissions for teams that should use the data source and remove default `Viewer` and `Editor` query permissions.

We recommend for a first setup, setting up as few rules for each team as possible and make them additive and not negated.

For validating the rules, we recommend testing the rules in the Loki Explore view. This will allow you to see the logs that would be returned for the rule.

#### Scenarios

**Scenario 1: One rule setup for each team**

We have two teams, Team A and Team B. Loki access is setup with `Admin` roles to have `Admin` permission only.

- Team A has a rule `namespace="dev"`.

- Team B has a rule `namespace="prod"`.

A user that is part of Team A will have access to logs that match `namespace="dev"`.

A user that is part of Team B will have access to logs that match `namespace="prod"`.

**Scenario 2: Multiple rules setup for one team**

> We have two teams, Team A and Team B. Loki access is setup with `Admin` roles having `Admin` permission.

Reviewer: What about permissions for team A and B?

> - Team A has rule `cluster="us-west-0", namespace="dev|prod"` configured.

Reviewer: It should be `cluster="us-west-0", namespace=~"dev|prod"`

- Team B has rule `cluster="us-west-0", namespace="!prod"` configured.

A user that is only part of Team A will have access to logs that match `cluster="us-west-0" AND (namespace="dev" OR namespace="prod")`.

A user that is only part of Team B will have access to logs that match `cluster="us-west-0" AND namespace!="prod"`.

> A user that is part of both Team A and Team B will have access to logs that match `cluster="us-west-0" AND (namespace="dev" OR namespace="prod") OR (is this true?) (cluster="us-west-0" AND namespace!="prod")`.

Reviewer: It's might be easier to understand if we write it in a simplier form. Team A has access to logs in cluster `us-west-0` with namespaces `dev` and `prod`. Team B has access to to everything in cluster `us-west-0`, except namespace `prod`. So basically, user who is member of both team A and team B has access to everything in cluster `us-west-0`.

A user that is **not** part of any Team with `Editor/Viewer` role will not have access to query any logs.

**Important**

A `Admin` user that is part of a Team with will only have access to that teams logs

A `Admin` user that is not part of any Team with `Admin` role will have access to all logs

**Scenario 3: Rules that overlap**

We have two teams, Team A and Team B.

- Team A has a rule `namespace="dev"`.

- Team B has a rule `namespace!="dev"`.

A user in Team A will have access to logs that match `namespace="dev"`.

> A user in Team b will have access to logs that match `namespace!="dev"`.

Reviewer: Team B

> > _NOTE:_ A user that is part of Team A and Team B will have access to all logs that match `namespace="dev"` `OR` `namespace!="dev"`.

Reviewer: That's basically, all the logs.

Author: yeas this is the idea that we had a example of this.
